<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//DataStax//DTD DITA TASK (hi-d ui-d pr-d sw-d abbrev-d)//EN" "task_ds.dtd"><task id="demoWikipediaSingleNode">
    <title>Term and phrase searches using the wikipedia demo</title>
    <shortdesc>Set up the Wikipedia demo, keyspace, table, and data and run queries on terms in
        article titles and bodies.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>The Wikipedia demo scripts automatically download 3,000+ Wikipedia articles, create a
                CQL keyspace and table, insert the articles, and create a search index on both the
                title and body columns.</p>
        </context>
        <prereq id="prereq">The demo scripts connect to the localhost on the Solr port. Ensure that
            the Solr interface and port <codeph>127.0.0.1:8983</codeph> are accessible.</prereq>
        <steps >
            <step id="dse-install-start-spark">
                <cmd><xref keyref="startStopDseTOC">Start DataStax Enterprise</xref> as a search
                    node.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Go to
                        <codeph><varname>installation_directory</varname>/demos/wikipedia</codeph>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Run the script to add the wikipedia schema:</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <screen outputclass="language-bash">./1-add-schema.sh</screen>
                </stepxmp>
                <stepresult>This script creates the <codeph>wiki</codeph> keyspace with a single
                    table <codeph>solr</codeph>.</stepresult>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To use the demo in a cluster that has more than one node, change the keyspace
                    replication from SimpleStrategy to NetworkTopologyStrategy, and set the factor
                    to 1 in each datacenter:</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <screen outputclass="language-bash">cqlsh -e 'ALTER KEYSPACE wiki WITH replication = {'class': 'NetworkTopologyStrategy', 'Cassandra' : 1, 'Solr' : 1};</screen>
                    <p>In this example, the cluster has two datacenters, <codeph>Cassandra</codeph>
                        and <codeph>Solr</codeph>. Datacenter names are case-sensitive.</p>
                </stepxmp>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Load the data and index the table using the second script
                        (<codeph>2-index.sh</codeph>).</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <screen outputclass="language-bash">./2-index.sh --wikifile wikipedia-sample.bz2</screen>
                </stepxmp>
                <stepresult> 3,000 articles are loaded into the <codeph>solr</codeph> table and then
                    indexed.<codeblock outputclass="results">Start indexing wikipedia...
------------> config properties:
docs.file = wikipedia-sample.bz2
keep.image.only.docs = false
-------------------------------
Indexed 1000
Indexed 2000
Indexed 3000
Finished
Visit http://localhost:8983/demos/wikipedia/ to see data</codeblock></stepresult>
            </step>
            <step importance="optional">
                <cmd>Verify that the data was successfully loaded into the keyspace/table:</cmd>
                <stepxmp><screen outputclass="language-bash">cqlsh -e 'DESC KEYSPACE wiki; SELECT count(*) FROM wiki.solr;'</screen>The
                    results show the details of the keyspace, table schema, index settings, and
                    number of
                    articles.<codeblock outputclass="results">CREATE KEYSPACE wiki WITH replication = {'class': 'SimpleStrategy', 'replication_factor': '1'}  AND durable_writes = true;

CREATE TABLE wiki.solr (
    id text PRIMARY KEY,
    body text,
    date text,
    solr_query text,
    title text
) WITH bloom_filter_fp_chance = 0.01
    AND caching = {'keys': 'ALL', 'rows_per_partition': 'NONE'}
    AND comment = ''
    AND compaction = {'class': 'org.apache.cassandra.db.compaction.SizeTieredCompactionStrategy', 'max_threshold': '32', 'min_threshold': '4'}
    AND compression = {'chunk_length_in_kb': '64', 'class': 'org.apache.cassandra.io.compress.LZ4Compressor'}
    AND crc_check_chance = 1.0
    AND dclocal_read_repair_chance = 0.1
    AND default_time_to_live = 0
    AND gc_grace_seconds = 864000
    AND max_index_interval = 2048
    AND memtable_flush_period_in_ms = 0
    AND min_index_interval = 128
    AND read_repair_chance = 0.0
    AND speculative_retry = '99PERCENTILE';
CREATE CUSTOM INDEX wiki_solr_solr_query_index ON wiki.solr (solr_query) USING 'com.datastax.bdp.search.solr.Cql3SolrSecondaryIndex';

 count
-------
  3579

(1 rows)

Warnings :
Aggregation query used without partition key
</codeblock></stepxmp>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Start <codeph>cqlsh</codeph> using the wiki keyspace.</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <screen outputclass="language-bash">cqlsh -k wiki</screen>
                </stepxmp>
                <stepresult>CQL shell session starts on the localhost in the <codeph>wiki</codeph>
                    keyspace.<codeblock outputclass="results">Connected to pw-search at 127.0.0.1:9042.
[cqlsh 5.0.1 | Cassandra 3.11.0.1805 | DSE 5.1.3 | CQL spec 3.4.4 | Native protocol v4]
Use HELP for help.
cqlsh:wiki></codeblock></stepresult>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Disable paging, for faster query results on small data sets:</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <codeblock outputclass="language-cql">PAGING off</codeblock>
                    <note>Paging is turned off only for the session. Paging is enabled after a
                        restart. Use a cqlshrc file to change the default startup parameters for
                        cqlsh.</note>
                </stepxmp>
                <stepresult>
                    <codeblock outputclass="results">Disabled Query paging.</codeblock>
                </stepresult>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Display the solr table search index schema:</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <codeblock outputclass="language-cql">DESCRIBE ACTIVE SEARCH INDEX SCHEMA ON solr;</codeblock>
                </stepxmp>
                <stepresult>
                    <codeblock outputclass="results">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
&lt;schema name="autoSolrSchema" version="1.5">
  &lt;types>
    &lt;fieldType class="org.apache.solr.schema.TextField" name="TextField">
      &lt;analyzer>
        &lt;tokenizer class="solr.WikipediaTokenizerFactory"/>
      &lt;/analyzer>
    &lt;/fieldType>
    &lt;fieldType class="org.apache.solr.schema.StrField" name="StrField"/>
  &lt;/types>
  &lt;fields>
    &lt;field indexed="true" multiValued="false" name="body" stored="true" type="TextField"/>
    &lt;field indexed="true" multiValued="false" name="title" stored="true" type="TextField"/>
    &lt;field docValues="true" indexed="true" multiValued="false" name="id" stored="true" type="StrField"/>
    &lt;field docValues="true" indexed="true" multiValued="false" name="date" stored="true" type="StrField"/>
  &lt;/fields>
  &lt;uniqueKey>id&lt;/uniqueKey>
&lt;/schema></codeblock>
                </stepresult>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Execute queries against the table using the index:</cmd>
                <choices id="choices_uny_1sp_x1b">
                    <choice>Return the titles of articles that contain the word
                        national:<codeblock outputclass="language-cql">SELECT title FROM solr WHERE solr_query='title:national';</codeblock>Seven
                        records are
                        returned.<codeblock outputclass="results"> title
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      Bolivia national football team 1999
                                      Bolivia national football team 2000
                                    Kenya national under-20 football team
                                      Bolivia national football team 2001
                                      Bolivia national football team 2002
                                 Israel men's national inline hockey team
 List of French born footballers who have played for other national teams

(7 rows)</codeblock></choice>
                </choices>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
