<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//DataStax//DTD DITA TASK (hi-d ui-d pr-d sw-d abbrev-d)//EN" "task_ds.dtd">
<task id="demoKeyspace">
    <title>Creating a demo keyspace for tutorials</title>
    <shortdesc>Step-by-step instructions to create a keyspace for tutorials found in this
        section.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Step-by-step instructions to create a keyspace for tutorials found in this
                section.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Get a list of datacenter names (DC) in the cluster.</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <screen outputclass="language-bash">dsetool status</screen>
                </stepxmp>
                <stepresult>The header line contains the datacenter name (<codeph>DC:
                            <varname>datacenter_name</varname>) and the type of
                    workload.</codeph><codeblock outputclass="results">DC: Cassandra       Workload: Cassandra       Graph: no
======================================================
...

DC: Solr            Workload: Search          Graph: no
======================================================
...</codeblock></stepresult>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Start a cqlsh session:</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <codeblock>cqlsh</codeblock>
                    <note type="tip">To connect cqlsh to a remote node use the host switch with the
                        hostname or IP address.</note>
                </stepxmp>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Create a demo keyspace with a replication factor of 1 in each datacenter.</cmd>
                <stepxmp>In multi-datacenter environments use
                        <codeph>NetworkTopologyStrategy</codeph> and set the replication factor for
                    each datacenter to at least
                        one.<codeblock outputclass="language-cql">CREATE KEYSPACE demo 
WITH replication = {
    'class': 'NetworkTopologyStrategy', 
    'Cassandra': '1', 
    'Solr': '1'};</codeblock><note>Datacenter
                        names are case-sensitive. Exit cqlsh and ensure that the name exactly
                        matches the DC name from the <codeph>dsetool status</codeph>
                    output.</note></stepxmp>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
